I've been contributing to Dancer for a few months now, and the
discussions occurs mainly on IRC (irc.perl.org, #dancer) or on
[[http://lists.perldancer.org/cgi-bin/listinfo/dancer-users][the Mailing
List]].

Last weekend, I had the occasion to meet sukria during the French Perl
Workshop. This has been really productive, we had the occasion to talk
about Plack, the templating system, websocket, ... and I really think we
should have met before. It was also the occasion to meet another
contributor, eiro, with whom I've been able to share some knowledge
about Plack.

During the workshop, I made a talk about Plack and the Middlewares. The
direct result of this is
[[http://github.com/sukria/Dancer/commit/5ee83a5206e08256d7326f92c2f2f62c5e035ba9#L0R440][the
last feature added by sukria]]: middlewares can be set in the
configuration file of your Dancer application, and will be loaded for
you.

The next release of Dancer won't generate an *app.psgi* file anymore, so
you will only need to edit your environment file (like
*deployement.yaml*), and add the following configuration:

#+BEGIN_EXAMPLE
    warnings: 1
    auto_reload: 1
    plack_middlewares:
        Debug:
        - panels
        -
            - Response
            - Dancer::Version
            - Dancer::Settings
#+END_EXAMPLE

and your application will load some
[[http://search.cpan.org/perldoc?Plack::Middleware::Debug][Plack::Middleware::Debug]]
and [[http://search.cpan.org/dist/Dancer-Debug/][Dancer::Debug]] panels.

Sukria has suggested a monthly drinkup meeting for people in/near Paris,
to talk about Dancer and Plack, in a pub or another place where we can
bring a laptop, have some beers and share idea/codes and other exchange
technicals thoughts.

I hope to meet more Dancer developers and users in a near future (sawyer
at Pisa maybe ?).
