#+BEGIN_QUOTE
  You may want to see the final version here:
  [[/github-explorer/][GitHub Explorer]].
#+END_QUOTE

For the last weeks, I've been working on the successor of
[[http://cpan-explorer.org/][CPAN Explorer]]. This time, I've decided to
create some visualizations (probably 8) of the various communities using
[[http://github.com/][GitHub]]. I'm happy with the result, and will soon
start to publish the maps (statics and interactives) with some analyses.
I'm publishing two previews: the Perl community and the european
developers. These are not final results. The colors, fonts, and layout
may change. But the structure of the graphs will be the same. All the
data was collected using the [[http://developer.github.com/][GitHub
API]].

Each node on the graph represents a developer. When a developer
"follows" another developer on GitHub, a link between them is created.
The color on the Perl community map represent the countries of the
developer. One of the most visible things on this graph is that the
japanese community is tighly connected and shares very little contact
with the foreign developers. miyagawa obviously acts as a glue between
japanese and worldwide Perl hackers.

The second graph is a little bit more complex. It represents the
European developers on GitHub. Here the colors represent the languages
used by the developers. It appears that ruby is by far the most
represented language on GitHub, as it dominates the whole map. Perl is
the blue cluster at the bottom of the map, and the green snake is...
Python.

Thanks to [[http://code.google.com/p/tinyaml/][bl0b]] for his
suggestions :)
